+++
title = "Random Thoughts on 4 Years of University"
author = ["Jethro Kuan"]
date = 2020-06-16T00:00:00+08:00
lastmod = 2020-06-16T22:11:00+08:00
draft = false
math = true
+++

It's been a long 4 years, but I've finally completed my undergraduate education
in Computer Science at the National University of Singapore. It's a wild time to
graduate: Covid-19 has certainly brought about its fair share of woes (such as
being harder to find jobs), but it has also given me time to think about how I
spent my time in university, and about what's next.

In truth, I didn't think much of university when I first enrolled. Computer
Science ended up being the only course I applied for, and NUS the only school
(and with not-so-great grades too), so things would've been different if I
weren't accepted. That's a scary thought, because of how competitive the course
is now. I'd always known I wanted to do something related to computers, I just
didn't think university would be the route I wanted to take. 4 years later, I
wouldn't have it any other way.

When I step back and look at the Jethro from 2016, I don't think I have changed
much as a person. The me now is just a little wiser, and a little more tired.
But what's strikingly obvious is how much my [circle of competence](https://fs.blog/2013/12/circle-of-competence/) has grown.
Every year, I learn a shocking amount both about computer science and about
myself. What excites me the most is knowing that there's so much more to learn:
the circle of things I don't know continues to expand at an alarming rate. There
was also a pivotal moment some time in year 1 where I realised I didn't really
know what I thought I knew, which changed how I approached both new and old
material.

In hindsight, the one thing I did consistently well over the 4 years is putting
myself in a position to learn whatever I was interested in. In year 1, I
explored heavily on the side of full-stack development/infra with Carousell. In
year 2, I considered going the research route, so I did a year-long research on
NLP, also gained extremely valuable experience [training and deploying machine
learning models at scale](https://medium.com/carousell-insider/introducing-image-search-price-suggestions-ce8e40a0163f). In year 3, I explored what it was like working as a
data scientist in a much larger company (Twitter). In year 4, I decided the
research I did in Year 2 wasn't satisfactory: I wasn't fully-committed to it
then, having taken up internships and a lot of modules. So I decided to take few
modules (1 or 2 per semester), and dedicate the year to my dissertation. I also
had a rather unique experience of spawning a popular open-source project, so as
a whole, I'd say my coverage in university, at least with respect to the typical
computer science experience, is pretty high.

These opportunities were certainly hard to come by. I know people who'd
attribute all this to talent, or just having the smarts, but I think that's
being unfair. I'd worked damn hard every step of the way, and that's a lot
easier when it's on things you're interested in. The relevant opportunities will
surface if you look hard enough.

My biggest regret in university would probably be not making the effort to meet
and understand new people. I'd taken all of the foundational mods early on, so
by the time I was year 3 I was taking mods largely alone. I eat lunch and attend
lectures alone in school most of the time. I don't have complaints about the
solitary time (I do enjoy it!), but I probably should've struck a healthier
balance. University is likely going to be one of the final periods of your life
where you're placed in an environment where this sort of interaction is normal
and encouraged. So talk to your peers, talk to your professors, and talk to
people from different faculties. Listen to the stories they have to tell. I've
had the pleasure of interacting and learning from a few interesting and
respectable seniors and juniors, and wished I had done more of that.

Another regret would be not taking the foundational modules seriously. I hadn't
given linear algebra, or statistics much thought, focusing primarily on the
other modules I had been taking. These modules turned out to be extremely
extremely important for later modules, especially those on Machine Learning, so
I ended up having to give them a good review.

If you're matriculating into NUS and looking for a module route, I'd recommend
this curiosity-driven approach. Clear the foundational modules early, and take
all the modules you are interested in. But not too many, lest you burn out like
I eventually did. Give research a try as well, you might just enjoy it. I really
enjoyed taking the level 5000 modules (CS5340 and CS5339). Unlike undergraduate
modules, these modules cover a lot of breadth and depth, but require a great
deal of self-learning. Another good module to take is Compilers (CS4212) because
it covers a good deal of computer science together (operating systems, theory of
computation etc.) and helps put things into perspective.

So what's after university? Frankly, I don't know. For now, I'm continuing to
explore what I'm currently interested in, first working as a research assistant
in NUS, and then later transitioning to a company that does the robotics and
spiking neural networks stuff I'm researching on. I'm truly hopeful in spiking
neural network technology and want to work on it, but we'll see where that takes
me. Finally, if you want to chat about school (or anything) you can reach me at
[my email](mailto:jethrokuan95@gmail.com)! I've been getting a lot of mail recently, so I might be slow to reply,
but I will.
